README.md, before:

# <p align=center>`SimDeblur`</p>

SimDeblur (**Sim**ple **Deblur**ring) is an open source framework for image and video deblurring based on PyTorch, which contains most deep-learning based state-of-the-art deblurring algorithms. It is easy to implement your own image or video deblurring and restoration algorithms. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first general framework for image/video delburring. 

<div align=center> 
<img src=./docs/reds_020.gif>
</div>

<style>
table {
margin: auto;
}
</style>

### Major Features

- Modular Design

The toolbox decomposes the deblurring framework into different components and one can easily construct a customized restoration framework by combining different modules.

- State of the art

The toolbox contains most deep-learning based state-of-the-art deblurring algorithms, including MSCNN, SRN, DeblurGAN, EDVR, *etc*.

- Efficient

SimDeblur supports distributed data-parallel training. 


### New Features
[2022/1/20] We transfer some checkpoints from the open-sourced repos into SimDeblur framework! We can find them [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1ukr-iLyxSMHVJJswHgGOF6QcQqOZwaLO?usp=sharing).

[2022/1/1] Support real-world video deblurring dataset: BSD.

[2021/3/31] Support DVD, GoPro and REDS video deblurring datasets. 

[2021/3/21] First release.

### Surpported Methods and Benchmarks
We will gradually release the checkpoints of each model in [checkpoints.md](./docs/checkpoints.md). 
* Single Image Deblurring 
    - [x] MSCNN [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02177), [Project](https://github.com/SeungjunNah/DeepDeblur-PyTorch)]
    - [x] SRN [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.01770), [Project](https://github.com/jiangsutx/SRN-Deblur)]
    - [ ] DeblurGAN [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.07064), [Project](https://github.com/KupynOrest/DeblurGAN)]
    - [ ] DMPHN [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.03468), [Project](https://github.com/HongguangZhang/DMPHN-cvpr19-master)]
    - [ ] DeblurGAN_V2 [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.03826), [Project](https://github.com/VITA-Group/DeblurGANv2)]
    - [ ] SAPHN [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.05343)]

* Video Deblurring
    - [x] DBN [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.08387), [Project](http://www.cs.ubc.ca/labs/imager/tr/2017/DeepVideoDeblurring/), [GitHub](https://github.com/shuochsu/DeepVideoDeblurring)]
    - [x] STRCNN [[paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.03285)]
    - [x] DBLRNet [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1804.00533)]
    - [x] EDVR [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.02716), [Project](https://github.com/xinntao/EDVR)]
    - [x] STFAN [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.12257), [Project](https://shangchenzhou.com/projects/stfan/)]
    - [x] IFIRNN [[Paper](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_CVPR_2019/html/Nah_Recurrent_Neural_Networks_With_Intra-Frame_Iterations_for_Video_Deblurring_CVPR_2019_paper.html)]
    - [x] CDVD-TSP [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.02501), [Project](https://github.com/csbhr/CDVD-TSP)]
    - [x] ESTRNN [[Paper](https://www.ecva.net/papers/eccv_2020/papers_ECCV/html/5116_ECCV_2020_paper.php), [Project](https://github.com/zzh-tech/ESTRNN)]
    - [ ] PVDNet [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.09982),[Project](https://github.com/codeslake/PVDNet)]

* Benchmarks
    - [x] GoPro [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02177), [Data](https://seungjunnah.github.io/Datasets/gopro)]
    - [x] DVD [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.08387), [Data](http://www.cs.ubc.ca/labs/imager/tr/2017/DeepVideoDeblurring/)]
    - [x] REDS [[Paper](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_CVPRW_2019/html/NTIRE/Nah_NTIRE_2019_Challenge_on_Video_Deblurring_and_Super-Resolution_Dataset_and_CVPRW_2019_paper.html), [Data](https://seungjunnah.github.io/Datasets/reds)]
    - [x] BSD [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.16028), [Project](https://github.com/zzh-tech/ESTRNN), [Data](https://drive.google.com/file/d/19cel6QgofsWviRbA5IPMEv_hDbZ30vwH/view)]

### Dependencies and Installation
* Python 3 (Conda is recommended)
* Pytorch 1.5.1 (with GPU)
* CUDA 10.1+ with NVCC
1. Clone the repositry or download the zip file
   ```
    git clone https://github.com/ljzycmd/SimDeblur.git
   ```
2. Install SimDeblur
   ```bash
   # create a pytorch env
   conda create -n simdeblur python=3.7
   conda activate simdeblur   
   # install the packages
   cd SimDeblur
   bash Install.sh
   ```

# Usage
You can open the [Colab Notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/13dNBB38U_scDI46EHQ-V1GEgDMVtj5mx?usp=sharing) to learn about basic usage and see the deblurring performance.

The design of SimDeblur consists of **FOUR** main parts as follows:
| Dataset | Model  | Scheduler | Engine |
|:-------:|:------:|:---------:|:------:|
|Dataset-specific classes | The backbone, losses, and meta_archs | Opeimizer, LR scheduler | **Trainer**, and some hook function during model training process|

Note that the dataset, model and scheduler can be constructed with config (EasyDict) with corresponding *build_{dataset, backbone, meta_arch, scheduler, optimizer, etc.}* functions. The Trainer class automatically construct all reqiured elements for model training in a general way. This means that if you want to do some specific modeling training, you may modify the training logics.

## 1 Start with trainer
You can construct a simple training process use the default trainer like following:
```python
from simdeblur.config import build_config, merge_args
from simdeblur.engine.parse_arguments import parse_arguments
from simdeblur.engine.trainer import Trainer


args = parse_arguments()

cfg = build_config(args.config_file)
cfg = merge_args(cfg, args)
cfg.args = args

trainer = Trainer(cfg)
trainer.train()
```
Then start training with single GPU:
```bash
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 bash ./tools/train.sh ./config/dbn/dbn_dvd.yaml 1
```
Multi GPU training:
```bash
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3 bash ./tools/train.sh ./config/dbn/dbn_dvd.yaml 4
```
Util now, we only support single GPU Test and Validation:
```bash
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python test.py ./config/dbn/dbn_dvd.yaml PATH_TO_CKPT
```

## 2 Build individual module
The SimDeblur also provides you to build individual module.

**Build a dataset**:
```python
from easydict import EasyDict as edict
from simdeblur.dataset import build_dataset

# construct configs of target dataset.
# SimDeblur adopts EasyDict to store configs.
dataset_cfg = edict({
    "name": "DVD",
    "mode": "train",
    "sampling": "n_c",
    "overlapping": True,
    "interval": 1,
    "root_gt": "./dataset/DVD/quantitative_datasets",
    "num_frames": 5,
    "augmentation": {
        "RandomCrop": {
            "size": [256, 256] },
        "RandomHorizontalFlip": {
            "p": 0.5 },
        "RandomVerticalFlip": {
            "p": 0.5 },
        "RandomRotation90": {
            "p": 0.5 },
    }
})

dataset = build_dataset(dataset_cfg)

print(dataset[0])
```

**Build a model**:
```python
from easydict import EasyDict as edict
from simdeblur.model import build_backbone

model_cfg = edict({
    "name": "DBN",
    "num_frames": 5,
    "in_channels": 3,
    "inner_channels": 64
})

model = build_backbone(model_cfg)

x = torch.randn(1, 5, 3, 256, 256)
out = model(x)
```

**Build a loss**:
```python 
from easydict import EasyDict as edict
from simdeblur.model import build_loss

criterion_cfg = {
    "name": "MSELoss",
}

criterion = build_loss()

x = torch.randn(2, 3, 256, 256)
y = torch.randn(2, 3, 256, 256)

print(criterion(x, y))
```
And the optimizer and lr_scheduler also can be created by the functions "build_optimizer" and "build_lr_scheduler" in the **simdeblur.scheduler**, *etc*. 

### Dataset Description
Until now, SimDeblur supports the most popular image and video deblurring datasets, including GOPRO, DVD, and REDS. 

Click [here](./simdeblur/dataset/README.md) for more information. 

### Acknowledgment

[1] facebookresearch. detectron2. https://github.com/facebookresearch/detectron2

[2] subeeshvasu. Awesome-Deblurring. https://github.com/subeeshvasu/Awesome-Deblurring

### Citations

If SimDeblur helps your research or work, please consider citing SimDeblur.

```bibtex
@misc{cao2021simdeblur,
  author       = {Mingdeng Cao},
  title        = {SimDeblur: A Simple Framwork for Image and Video Deblurring},
  howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/ljzycmd/SimDeblur}},
  year         = {2021}
}
```
If you have any questions, please feel free to [open an new issue](https://github.com/ljzycmd/SimDeblur/issues/new) or contact me at `mingdengcao [AT] gmail.com`, and I will try to solve your problem.

Commit message:

Add Restormer model into SimDeblur.

README.md, after:

# <p align=center>`SimDeblur`</p>

SimDeblur (**Sim**ple **Deblur**ring) is an open source framework for image and video deblurring based on PyTorch, which contains most deep-learning based state-of-the-art deblurring algorithms. It is easy to implement your own image or video deblurring and restoration algorithms. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first general framework for image/video delburring. 

<div align=center> 
<img src=./docs/reds_020.gif>
</div>

<style>
table {
margin: auto;
}
</style>

### Major Features

- Modular Design

The toolbox decomposes the deblurring framework into different components and one can easily construct a customized restoration framework by combining different modules.

- State of the art

The toolbox contains most deep-learning based state-of-the-art deblurring algorithms, including MSCNN, SRN, DeblurGAN, EDVR, *etc*.

- Efficient

SimDeblur supports distributed data-parallel training. 


### New Features
[2022/1/21] We add Restormer model. Note that it can only works on PyTorch1.8+.

[2022/1/20] We transfer some checkpoints from the open-sourced repos into SimDeblur framework! You can find them [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1ukr-iLyxSMHVJJswHgGOF6QcQqOZwaLO?usp=sharing).

[2022/1/1] Support real-world video deblurring dataset: BSD.

[2021/3/31] Support DVD, GoPro and REDS video deblurring datasets. 

[2021/3/21] First release.

### Surpported Methods and Benchmarks
We will gradually release the checkpoints of each model in [checkpoints.md](./docs/checkpoints.md). 
* Single Image Deblurring 
    - [x] MSCNN [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02177), [Project](https://github.com/SeungjunNah/DeepDeblur-PyTorch)]
    - [x] SRN [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.01770), [Project](https://github.com/jiangsutx/SRN-Deblur)]
    - [ ] DeblurGAN [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.07064), [Project](https://github.com/KupynOrest/DeblurGAN)]
    - [ ] DMPHN [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.03468), [Project](https://github.com/HongguangZhang/DMPHN-cvpr19-master)]
    - [ ] DeblurGAN_V2 [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.03826), [Project](https://github.com/VITA-Group/DeblurGANv2)]
    - [ ] SAPHN [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.05343)]
    - [x] Restormer [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.09881), [Project](https://github.com/swz30/Restormer)]

* Video Deblurring
    - [x] DBN [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.08387), [Project](http://www.cs.ubc.ca/labs/imager/tr/2017/DeepVideoDeblurring/), [GitHub](https://github.com/shuochsu/DeepVideoDeblurring)]
    - [x] STRCNN [[paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.03285)]
    - [x] DBLRNet [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1804.00533)]
    - [x] EDVR [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.02716), [Project](https://github.com/xinntao/EDVR)]
    - [x] STFAN [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.12257), [Project](https://shangchenzhou.com/projects/stfan/)]
    - [x] IFIRNN [[Paper](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_CVPR_2019/html/Nah_Recurrent_Neural_Networks_With_Intra-Frame_Iterations_for_Video_Deblurring_CVPR_2019_paper.html)]
    - [x] CDVD-TSP [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.02501), [Project](https://github.com/csbhr/CDVD-TSP)]
    - [x] ESTRNN [[Paper](https://www.ecva.net/papers/eccv_2020/papers_ECCV/html/5116_ECCV_2020_paper.php), [Project](https://github.com/zzh-tech/ESTRNN)]
    - [ ] PVDNet [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.09982),[Project](https://github.com/codeslake/PVDNet)]

* Benchmarks
    - [x] GoPro [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02177), [Data](https://seungjunnah.github.io/Datasets/gopro)]
    - [x] DVD [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.08387), [Data](http://www.cs.ubc.ca/labs/imager/tr/2017/DeepVideoDeblurring/)]
    - [x] REDS [[Paper](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_CVPRW_2019/html/NTIRE/Nah_NTIRE_2019_Challenge_on_Video_Deblurring_and_Super-Resolution_Dataset_and_CVPRW_2019_paper.html), [Data](https://seungjunnah.github.io/Datasets/reds)]
    - [x] BSD [[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.16028), [Project](https://github.com/zzh-tech/ESTRNN), [Data](https://drive.google.com/file/d/19cel6QgofsWviRbA5IPMEv_hDbZ30vwH/view)]

### Dependencies and Installation
* Python 3 (Conda is recommended)
* Pytorch 1.5.1 (with GPU)
* CUDA 10.1+ with NVCC
1. Clone the repositry or download the zip file
   ```
    git clone https://github.com/ljzycmd/SimDeblur.git
   ```
2. Install SimDeblur
   ```bash
   # create a pytorch env
   conda create -n simdeblur python=3.7
   conda activate simdeblur   
   # install the packages
   cd SimDeblur
   bash Install.sh
   ```

# Usage
You can open the [Colab Notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/13dNBB38U_scDI46EHQ-V1GEgDMVtj5mx?usp=sharing) to learn about basic usage and see the deblurring performance.

The design of SimDeblur consists of **FOUR** main parts as follows:
| Dataset | Model  | Scheduler | Engine |
|:-------:|:------:|:---------:|:------:|
|Dataset-specific classes | The backbone, losses, and meta_archs | Opeimizer, LR scheduler | **Trainer**, and some hook function during model training process|

Note that the dataset, model and scheduler can be constructed with config (EasyDict) with corresponding *build_{dataset, backbone, meta_arch, scheduler, optimizer, etc.}* functions. The Trainer class automatically construct all reqiured elements for model training in a general way. This means that if you want to do some specific modeling training, you may modify the training logics.

## 1 Start with trainer
You can construct a simple training process use the default trainer like following:
```python
from simdeblur.config import build_config, merge_args
from simdeblur.engine.parse_arguments import parse_arguments
from simdeblur.engine.trainer import Trainer


args = parse_arguments()

cfg = build_config(args.config_file)
cfg = merge_args(cfg, args)
cfg.args = args

trainer = Trainer(cfg)
trainer.train()
```
Then start training with single GPU:
```bash
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 bash ./tools/train.sh ./config/dbn/dbn_dvd.yaml 1
```
Multi GPU training:
```bash
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3 bash ./tools/train.sh ./config/dbn/dbn_dvd.yaml 4
```
Util now, we only support single GPU Test and Validation:
```bash
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python test.py ./config/dbn/dbn_dvd.yaml PATH_TO_CKPT
```

## 2 Build individual module
The SimDeblur also provides you to build individual module.

**Build a dataset**:
```python
from easydict import EasyDict as edict
from simdeblur.dataset import build_dataset

# construct configs of target dataset.
# SimDeblur adopts EasyDict to store configs.
dataset_cfg = edict({
    "name": "DVD",
    "mode": "train",
    "sampling": "n_c",
    "overlapping": True,
    "interval": 1,
    "root_gt": "./dataset/DVD/quantitative_datasets",
    "num_frames": 5,
    "augmentation": {
        "RandomCrop": {
            "size": [256, 256] },
        "RandomHorizontalFlip": {
            "p": 0.5 },
        "RandomVerticalFlip": {
            "p": 0.5 },
        "RandomRotation90": {
            "p": 0.5 },
    }
})

dataset = build_dataset(dataset_cfg)

print(dataset[0])
```

**Build a model**:
```python
from easydict import EasyDict as edict
from simdeblur.model import build_backbone

model_cfg = edict({
    "name": "DBN",
    "num_frames": 5,
    "in_channels": 3,
    "inner_channels": 64
})

model = build_backbone(model_cfg)

x = torch.randn(1, 5, 3, 256, 256)
out = model(x)
```

**Build a loss**:
```python 
from easydict import EasyDict as edict
from simdeblur.model import build_loss

criterion_cfg = {
    "name": "MSELoss",
}

criterion = build_loss()

x = torch.randn(2, 3, 256, 256)
y = torch.randn(2, 3, 256, 256)

print(criterion(x, y))
```
And the optimizer and lr_scheduler also can be created by the functions "build_optimizer" and "build_lr_scheduler" in the **simdeblur.scheduler**, *etc*. 

### Dataset Description
Until now, SimDeblur supports the most popular image and video deblurring datasets, including GOPRO, DVD, and REDS. 

Click [here](./simdeblur/dataset/README.md) for more information. 

### Acknowledgment

[1] facebookresearch. detectron2. https://github.com/facebookresearch/detectron2

[2] subeeshvasu. Awesome-Deblurring. https://github.com/subeeshvasu/Awesome-Deblurring

### Citations

If SimDeblur helps your research or work, please consider citing SimDeblur.

```bibtex
@misc{cao2021simdeblur,
  author       = {Mingdeng Cao},
  title        = {SimDeblur: A Simple Framwork for Image and Video Deblurring},
  howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/ljzycmd/SimDeblur}},
  year         = {2021}
}
```
If you have any questions, please feel free to [open an new issue](https://github.com/ljzycmd/SimDeblur/issues/new) or contact me at `mingdengcao [AT] gmail.com`, and I will try to solve your problem.
